Savheim III - Lots of important information has been added to item tooltips.  For example, look closely at your Hammer's description for new ways to build, and at the Dverger Circlet for a misterious tip.
Savheim III - You can reposition some GUI windows by clicking & dragging, or Left-Alt and then click & drag.  Press Esc to get a cursor.
Savheim III - Recommended game settings:  Disable Depth of Field, Chromatic Aberration, and Motion Blur.  You can also disable Key Hints.  You can disable Raven hints if you don't like Hugin, but at least give him a cracker first.
Savheim III - The game takes a while to load with so many mods installed.  Go get a glass of water and use the restroom.  Please be patient.
Savheim III - Group commands: /invite [name]; /leave; /remove [name]; /promote [name].  Group benefits:  group gem effects, draggable user interface, group chat (/p), colored names, and group ping (LeftAlt).
Savheim III - Press ~ (above Tab) to swap hotbars.  Practice the following, young Viking!  Middle mouse - special attack.  Dodge - hold block and press jump.  Parry - block just in time.
Savheim III - Most weapon classes have received physics upgrades to give them unique and improved playstyles.  Give them all a second swing, even if you decided against them last playthrough.  ... wait, are you reading online info about meta builds??  This. Is. SAVHEIM!!!
Savheim III - Swords - on-demand slash vs. pierce.  Clubs - stagger.  Daggers - flanking, crit, unique dodge.  Axes - chain attack DPS.  Spears - throwable (with slow auto-return & owner-only auto-pickup) and improved melee attack range.  Warpikes - thrusty spears, melee special.
Savheim III - Atgeirs - AOE knockback.  Lances - knockback and bleed.  Claymores - parry & speed.  Bastard Swords - parry & damage.  Sledges - AOE.  Battlehammers - stagger.  Battleaxes - slow but powerful execute.  Crystal Battleaxes - stagger poke.  Fists - flanking, crit, parry, unique effects, unique dodge.
Savheim III - Bows - normal draw and projectile speeds.  Greatbows - slower draw speed, faster projectile speed, greater range and damage, knockback.  Crossbows - slow reload, very high damage and knockback.  Zoom with right click while aiming.  Press Interact (default E) to cancel draw.
Savheim III - Wands - one-hand, low cost, no special attack.  Scepters - later-game alternative one-hand with special attacks.  Staves - two-hand, higher damage and cost, bigger effects, special attacks.
Savheim III - Bucklers excel at parrying.  Tower shields let you block for days, and some of them offer special resists.  Medium shields are a blend of both.
Savheim III - Dual wield pairs of swords, clubs, knives, or axes by equipping two of the same class.  Try their special attacks!  Mainhand block and parry are ignored.  Offhand base damage is ignored.  Gems should work in either weapon.  Dual_* skills do nothing.
Savheim III - Block Armor = how much you can block.  [Block Armor * Parry Bonus] = how much you can parry.  Excess damage drains health.  Tower shields drain stamina before health.  Block Force does nothing.
Savheim III - Backstab: sneaking, attack from behind, and enemy not in combat.  Flanking: Attack an enemy's back.  Critical:  Attack a staggered enemy.
Savheim III - Slope combat works much better now, but you have to aim your crosshairs vertically as well as horizontally!
Savheim III - Harpoons now have a basic secondary attack.  Primary attack tethers, and then the Use key reels the tether in if it's lighter than you.  If it's heavier than you, well, with great power comes great responsibility.
Savheim III - All hand-held gear now equips instantly, making for more engaging gameplay.  You may sometimes notice animation glitching because of this, but I think it's worth the tradeoff.  Tell me what you think!
Savheim III - Stealth no longer consumes stamina.  Swim faster and consume less stamina as you level Swimming.  Stamina regenerates faster in general.  Food and rested buffs help even more with stamina.  Being Cold hurts stamina.
Savheim III - Torches are much more useful now!  They protect from Cold in a small radius, though they fade quickly in Mountains.  They last longer, and they can be upgraded at the workbench for greater duration and damage.
Savheim III - No more than 3 sockets can be crafted into any piece of gear, and some gear isn't allowed to have any sockets.
Savheim III - Try to unlock as many recipes as you can...  Bronze Nails?  What do I need those for?  Craft them and see!
Savheim III - Once you're able to craft them, it's a good idea to keep a Rune Focus and a Soulcatcher Lantern with you on adventures.  Use the Rune Focus on lore stones.  Use the lantern on souls of defeated enemies (these only spawn if you have a lantern).
Savheim III - Wards do stuff now:  infinite fires, structure damage halved, structure repair, structure weatherproofing, auto-close doors, and no food drain.  Improved wards also slowly damage enemies.
Savheim III - You can modify the color of text on signs.  Open the sign prompt as usual and type < color=white> or < color=#FFFFFF> (remove the space between "< color"), then type your message.  Use multiple tags for rainbow signs!  The color automatically resets if you enter new text.
Savheim III - Store surtling cores in boat inventories, then press Shift while controlling the boat.  Does not work on custom rafts.  Beware capsizing!
Savheim III - Mouse over a banner or boat mast to link an image.  Try imgur.com (use the Direct Link URL) or just right-click an online image and select "Copy image address."  Please remember some of us have kids who might be watching us play.
Savheim III - You've learned to swim while holding things in your hands, and you can dive under the water!  Go swimming!  Wat-er you waiting for??
Savheim III - Boss powers now have both passive and active aspects, and you get to choose two!  Read about them at the starting stones or in your Valheim Compendium (inventory -> raven icon).  Keybinds are hardcoded to F and G, regardless of in-game settings.
Savheim III - Death went to therapy and is nicer now.  You'll no longer drop equipment or consumables when you die, and most non-combat skills don't lose experience.  Resurrect each other with Surtling Cores.
Savheim III - Check your Valheim Compendium (inventory -> raven icon) for useful game and mod information, including Active Effects.
Savheim III - There are more ways to gain Rested now, and each level of Comfort adds more Rested time than it used to.  F6 toggles a list of pieces while in shelter.  Rest in groups for extra duration!
Savheim III - Waypoints offer safety from monsters, warmth, and a way to pick up a Rested buff in the field if you sit next to it for long enough.
Savheim III - Zone progression:  Meadows -> Black Forest -> Swamp -> Mountains -> Plains -> Mistlands -> Ashlands & Deep North.  Ashlands and Deep North are intended to be equally-deadly end-game zones.
Savheim III - Outdoor camps, resources, and dungeons will all respawn slowly at varying rates.
Savheim III - Sell precious stones & trophies to the traders.  Double-click items you want to buy to specify quantities.  Split stacks in your inventory to control quantities you want to sell.
Savheim III - Steps have been taken to ensure we can all coexist in the same world despite playing at different speeds.  Relax and enjoy the journey.
Savheim III - The world gets more dangerous the further from center you travel.  Those who venture far return wealthy... if they return at all.
Savheim III - Items on the ground in the wild will despawn after 4 hours.  "The wild" means areas away from where you've built.
Savheim III - Endgame zones will be entirely new experiences since Savheim II!
Savheim III - This version of Savheim takes several steps to safeguard performance.
Savheim III - Thank you to Iron Gate Studio for making Valheim such a beautiful game, to all the creative modders out there for so many massive additions to it, and to the community for beautiful fanart.
Savheim III - Thank you to some very talented modders:  Azumatt, blaxxun, wackymole, Therzie, KG, Blacks7ar, Rusty, Searica, MSchmoecker, and many more!
Savheim III - I've intentionally left the BepInEx console enabled.  If you ever see RED error text, please copy it into the Discord/Savheim III/bug-reports channel.
*Savheim III - SETUP:  Change these keybinds in your game: Toggle Walk & Sit.  Recommended: , & .  (reserved by mods: Z, X, C, F, G, I, O, P, K, L, F1, F3, F6, Arrow keys, Keypad7, Keypad8, KeypadPlus, KeypadMinus, and Shift-{1-6}).
*Savheim III - SETUP:  If you're playing at 3440x1440 resolution, please go to \Valheim\BepInEx\config\Azumatt.BowsBeforeHoes.cfg, search for OffsetX, and change the value to -903.  In the same directory, open Azumatt.FastLink.cfg, search for Position of the UI, and change the X coordinate to 835.  Save both, then add these to \Valheim\.gitignore.  Ask Sav for help.
*Savheim III - KNOWN BUG:  There is currently a bug with quivers if you have a quiver equipped when you craft or equip a different quiver.  Please unequip your current quiver before crafting or equipping a different one.
*Savheim III - KNOWN BUG:  You can rename some NPCs, but the name won't update until you leave and return to the area.  Teleporting or relogging will do the trick.
*Savheim III - KNOWN BUG:  You will someday discover a very special mount that offers an alternate mode of travel.  DO NOT DISMOUNT WHILE USING THIS ALTERNATE MODE OF TRAVEL, or you'll lose it.
*Savheim III - KNOWN BUG:  There's an extra repair piece in the hammer's build inventory called "Repair Scroll."  It's functionally the same as the repair hammer and can be ignored (or used for repairs if you like).